I have around 8 years of experience working in the data domain as Data Engineer across finance, automotive, communication, insurance, and retail industries. Currently, I am working with 7-eleven as a Senior Data Engineer where my major responsibilities would include designing, developing and implementing Data Pipelines on Azure. In addition, I am also responsible for developing APIs for geographic information system applications and maintaining quality reference data in source by performing operations such as cleaning, transformation and ensuring integrity in a relational environment by working closely with the stakeholders and solution architects.
In my current role at 7-eleven, I've been at the forefront of the Data Quality Initiative, actively engaging in the automated identification of data quality issues across multiple datasets on a monthly basis. Simultaneously, I've designed and implemented fully automated ETL pipelines, utilizing Azure Data Factory for seamless and serverless ETL, Azure HDInsight for scalable data processing, and Azure Blob Storage for efficient and secure storage. This strategic use of Azure services significantly reduced the runtime for retail product reevaluation processes by distributing the workload across multiple Kubernetes pods orchestrated within Airflow. Additionally, it has also enhanced our ability to produce a comprehensive monthly product analysis dataset with various attributes. My work extends beyond traditional ETL, revolving in the development of specialized pipelines tailored for Data Science modeling datasets. Through the integration of Azure microservices, my primary goal is to make data readily available and optimized for informed business decision-making and predictive modeling.
Over the course of my professional journey, I've developed expertise in an extensive range of technologies, including Python, SQL, and various Big Data tools such as HDFS, Hive, Sqoop, Impala, and Kafka. On the Azure platform, I have hands-on experience with Azure Blob Storage, HDInsight, Azure Data Lake, Azure Databricks, Azure Synapse Analytics, Azure Event Grid, Azure Service Bus, and Azure Functions etc., In addition, I've been incorporating Azure Databricks and Snowflake, to enhance our data processing capabilities in more recent times.